# ServerMySQL

MySQL Server Windows


==========================================================

bin\mysqld --initialize-insecure --console

bin\mysqld
bin\mysql -u root
ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'root';
bin\mysqladmin -u root -p shutdown

bin\mysqld --install MySQL --defaults-file="c:\server\mysql\my.ini"
NET START MySQL

bin\mysqld --remove

==========================================================

# For advice on how to change settings please see
# http://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/server-configuration-defaults.html
# *** DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE. It's a template which will be copied to the
# *** default location during install, and will be replaced if you
# *** upgrade to a newer version of MySQL.

[mysqld]

# Remove leading # and set to the amount of RAM for the most important data
# cache in MySQL. Start at 70% of total RAM for dedicated server, else 10%.
# innodb_buffer_pool_size = 128M

# Remove leading # to turn on a very important data integrity option: logging
# changes to the binary log between backups.
# log_bin

# These are commonly set, remove the # and set as required.
basedir = c:/server/mysql
datadir = c:/server/mysql/data
# port = .....
# server_id = .....

max_connections=256

# Remove leading # to set options mainly useful for reporting servers.
# The server defaults are faster for transactions and fast SELECTs.
# Adjust sizes as needed, experiment to find the optimal values.
# join_buffer_size = 128M
# sort_buffer_size = 2M
# read_rnd_buffer_size = 2M 

sql_mode=NO_ENGINE_SUBSTITUTION,STRICT_TRANS_TABLES 

# Server timed out and closed the connection
# wait_timeout = 86400
# interactive_timeout = 86400

==========================================================

Create a user to access externally, so you dont need to use root for security:

CREATE USER 'MYUSER'@'%.%.%.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'MYPASSWORD'; 
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'MYUSER'@'%.%.%.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'MYPASSWORD';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;

Change user root administrator password:

UPDATE user SET Password=PASSWORD('MYPASSWORD') WHERE User='root';
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;

Add permissions to root administrator user to access from outside:

GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'root'@'192.168.0.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'MYPASSWORD';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'root'@'127.0.0.1' IDENTIFIED BY 'MYPASSWORD';
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'MYPASSWORD';

==========================================================

SELECT CURRENT_USER();

SET PASSWORD FOR 'root'@'localhost' = PASSWORD('my_password');
CREATE USER 'root'@'192.168.%.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password'; 
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'root'@'192.168.%.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password';

CREATE USER 'general'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password'; 
CREATE USER 'general'@'192.168.%.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password'; 
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'general'@'192.168.%.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password';

GRANT SELECT ON *.* TO 'general'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password';
GRANT SELECT ON *.* TO 'general'@'192.168.%.%' IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password';

==========================================================
